## Question 23 – DBQ

**Directions:** In 5-7 sentences, respond to the prompt below. Be sure to cite evidence from the source itself in your response. While it is not required, you may find it useful to structure your response in a TEA for 2 format, with a strong topic sentence that you defend with at least two pieces of evidence and your analysis/reasoning. 

**Prompt: According to Emperor Wuzong, what is the impact Buddhism is having on China? In his view, what is the appropriate response for the government to take?**

---

 _The following edict is from Emperor Wuzong (r. 841-846) of the Tang Dynasty._  
   
It was only from the Han and Wei on that the religion of idols [Buddhism] gradually came to prominence. So in this latter age it has transmitted its strange ways, instilling its infection with every opportunity, spreading like a luxuriant vine, until it has poisoned the customs of our nation; gradually, and before anyone was aware, it beguiled [deceived] and confounded men’s minds so that the multitude have been increasingly led astray. It has spread to the hills and plains of all the nine provinces and through the walls and towers of our two capitals. Each day finds its monks and followers growing more numerous and its temples more lofty. It wears out the strength of the people with constructions of earth and wood, pilfers their wealth for ornaments of gold and precious objects, causes men to abandon their lords and parents for the company of teachers, and severs man and wife with its monastic decrees. In destroying law and injuring mankind, indeed, nothing surpasses this doctrine!  
   
Now if even one man fails to work the fields, someone must go hungry; if one woman does not tend her silkworms, someone will be cold. At present there are an inestimable number of monks and nuns in the empire, each of them waiting for the farmers to feed him and the silkworms to clothe him, while the public temples and private chapels have reached boundless numbers, all with soaring towers and elegant ornamentation sufficient to outshine the imperial palace itself.  
   
If Buddhism is completely abolished now, who will say that the action is not timely? Already more than 100,000 idle and unproductive Buddhist followers have been expelled, and countless of their gaudy, useless buildings destroyed. Henceforth We may guide the people in stillness and purity, cherish the principle of doing nothing, order Our government with simplicity and ease, and achieve a unification of customs so that the multitudes of all realms will find their destination in Our august [impressive] rule.

Emperor Wuzong believed Buddhism was having a negative effect on China, and believed that exterminating Buddhists from China would be the best path forward. Wuzong believed that Buddhists "waited for [others] to feed [and] clothe them", showing that they were not doing any work and instead relied on other to do their duties for them. Because of how widespread Buddhism was, this meant that much of the population would be counterproductive to China through their constant need for things without giving any back. This, in turn, would make China weak. Wuzong thought the best response would be to continue expulsion of the "unproductive Buddhist followers", because having them gone would mean China wouldn't need to make any more resources to keep up with their constant need, and could instead focus on giving food and resources to those who already helped produce it. Only allowing those who contributed to China to continue taking its resources would lead to all the Chinese people actively working in society to prevent their own starvation. And so Emperor Wuzong thought that expelling Buddhists would be the best way to get rid of their counterproductiveness.

The placement and control of natural resources such as water, food, wood, and animals led to the rise and fall of many cities and civilizations within China and South Asia.

Water was a key natural resource in China and South Asia, and the ability to control it could easily make or break a civilization, such as how China's attempts to dam the Yellow River worsened it, or how the Indus River destroyed Harrapan Civilization. The Yellow River in China was always known as China's Sorrow, because of the overwhelming floods it produced. To defend against it, the Chinese built dams along its edges, which provided short-term relief from the river's strength. However, they inevitably put more silt into the waters, increasing its level even further. This ultimately led to China only ever having brief control over the river. This weakened them severely, as it forced them to constantly fight the waters instead of conquering more land or taking care of themselves. This is not unlike another situation involving water, experienced by Harrapan Civilization. The Harrapans were a people situated nearby the large Indus Valley River, and they flourished there, but only for a short time. The nearby river had slowly been lowering, and the Harrapans were there in a sort of Goldilocks moment, a time when the river was neither too high nor too low. In later years, the river lowered, and the Harrapans split into smaller tribes and departed from each other in search of water. What they experienced was the direct opposite of the Chinese: their water source was lowering, and so they left, whereas the Chinese had a water source that was too high, and chose to fight it. These different responses can be attributed to necessity. The Harrapans needed to leave because there was no other choice; no amount of fighting the river could increase their water supply, and rationing was undesirable as compared to other options. On the other hand, no nearby rivers were large enough to support China's rapidly growing population, and so China was forced to shield themselves from the ever-rising Yellow River instead. And so overall, while a lack of water forced Harrapans to evacuate, an overabundance of water in China forced them to build and rebuild dams to keep this useful source.

The location and nearby resources of cities such as Magadah and Quanzhou helped to decide what those cities would become. Magadah, one of the 16 mahajanapadas of South Asia, rose to power in part due to the abundance of natural resources near it, namely wood and elephants. The nearby forests could be used to quickly construct many supplies useful for conquering, and the elephants could be used to travel quickly and take high ground in battle. And so Magadah used these to conquer everything around it. Then, its central position and status as a strong city made it become the center of the empire that followed. In contrast to Magadah's status as a governmental city, Quanzhou became a major trading city in China due to its presence near the ocean. It was in a convenient location for ships from South Asia to get to. The traffic from so many ships meant that Quanzhou had a wide variety of items to offer, and so it grew even more. Quanzhou was also part of China, and thus had access to the wide variety of silk and porcelain available nowhere else, making it a spot to get these precious items. While at first Magadah and Quanzhou seem quite different, both were enabled to become what they were through their locations: Magadah rose to power from its wood and elephants used for war, and Quanzhou rose as a trade city due to its proximity to the seas and its access to special items from China. Every type of city requires a different type of location and a different set of resources, and Magadah and Quanzhou demonstrate this excellently. Taken together, we can see that the location and resources available to both of these areas helped determine what they became.